# first_ml
My first machine learning (ML) algorithm. I applied it to equities OHLCV data to try and garner a noise-reduced signal. 

With lots of economic agents, markets tend to be quite chaotic and noisy (especially when looking at shorter timeframes). Traders often talk about price action containing a signal along with noise; thus, the idea here was to remove the noise. In turn, this would make the direction of a stock's trend clearer and enable better signals. Historically, lots of attempts have been made to make price-action less noisy, such as via an FFT analysis. Another benefit of removing noise from OHLCV data is that various machine learning models do not work well noisy data and outliers. Thus, preprocessing price data via noise-reduction techniques can often result in better performing models.

The google colab notebook attached shows my first ever attempt at machine learning. I test two models for removing noise, with the main difference between them being how the OHLCV data is preprocessed. The first model scaled the features by standardising them: ie. subtracting the *training set's* mean and dividing by the *training set's* standard deviation. Upon testing the model, I discovered it did not work well for extreme prices in the testing set that were much higher than those present in the training set. To overcome this problem, I had to use a different method for scaling my features. 

The second model uses a slightly more complex data preprocessing step. First, the percentage change for every feature between each timestamp is calculated; for example, the percentage change between the closing price at one point in time and the next point in time. After this step, each feature's percentage change is standardised using its mean and standard deviation as calculated in its training set. Finally, this goes through a min-max normalization step to get all values between the range of 0 and 1. Model 2 managed to achieve a mean average error that was approximately 24x less than the first model -- a massive improvement!
